In this lecture, you'll learn about PPPoE, the Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet. In earlier lectures
in the section, you learned about the different WAN options that a large company or large office
would use for WAN and their Internet connectivity. Less expensive options which are often aimed
at home user Internet access, are often used as Internet VPN WAN backup options in those corporate
environments.
They can also be used as the primary WAN connection method to the corporate network from smaller offices
and for home users. So, the types of connections we're talking about here are DSL, Digital Subscriber Line,
cable, and wireless, for example,
4G over cellular networks. With these connection types, there will typically be no corporate level SLA,
because they're going over the Internet using VPN.
So, that could be going over multiple providers,
so there's no way to give end to end guarantees.
So looking an example of how this would be used, we've got a large company here. They've got an office
in New York, it's their headquarters, and they've got a large branch in Boston.
They've got a Leased Line to the Internet from New York,
ans there's also a Leased Line directly between the New York and Boston offices.
So whenever there's traffic between New York and Boston, it will go over that Leased Line,
and it's got a good SLA there.
Whenever users in New York go out to the Internet, it goes over that Leased Line.
Whenever users in Boston want to go out to the Internet, it will go over the Leased Line to New York and
then break out to the Internet from there.
So, this is all good.
But what if that Leased Line between New York and Boston goes down?
The company are concerned about that.
So, they want to put in a backup option. Now, they're not going to put in another Leased Line just for
backup because that's expensive.
So what they can do is put in a 4G, for example, connection from the Boston office out to the Internet.
Now, if that Leased Line between New York and Boston goes down, the users in Boston can still get
out to the Internet over that 4G connection,
and they can also set up an Internet VPN connection between the two offices as well.
So if the Leased Line goes down, then they won't get as good quality, but at least the connection is
still there.
Another reason that they would want to use one of these kinds of options is they've got an office in
London, which is a small branch office with just a handful of staff there.
So, they can't justify the cost of putting it on a Leased Line in London.
They could put in a DSL connection there that gives the users of our Internet access,
and they could also configure an Internet VPN over the same connection for access to the corporate network.
PPPoE, PPP over Ethernet, is commonly used in DSL deployments, and PPPoE can be configured on either
the DSL modem or on the router.
So in my experience, it's usually configured on the modem.
So you don't have to do anything special on the router, but maybe in your country, it is common to do it on
the router.
Okay, that's everything I needed to tell you here.
See you in the next lecture.